README.md, before:

[![multilayer-alignment](https://github.com/letiziaia/multilayer-alignment/actions/workflows/validate.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/letiziaia/multilayer-alignment/actions/workflows/validate.yml)
[![Python 3.10+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3100/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/letiziaia/multilayer-alignment/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/letiziaia/multilayer-alignment/graph/badge.svg?token=KSXP8K5A8S)](https://codecov.io/gh/letiziaia/multilayer-alignment)

# multilayer-alignment

This repository implements an algorithm for quantifying multilayer alignment or higher-order alignment, that is, the alignment across n different dimensions. You can refer to the [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1HMEE5kOwwJPLBmAgycKIMSWRx0eCxd3RtSxVR1Jdczw/) for the original idea.

## Structure of the repo

- `\multilayer_alignment\`: source code
- `\tests\`: tests for the source code

## Setting up the development environment

![python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-FFD43B?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=blue)

You should have python >= 3.10 and [pipenv](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv#installation) installed.

```shell
# install dependencies (including dev)
$ pipenv install --dev

# activate environment
$ pipenv shell
```

## Formatting

The project uses [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html), [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/) and [ruff](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/) code linting.
All the code can be formatted by running `python3 -m black .` in root dir.
Additional issues can be found by running `python3 -m flake8 .` and `python3 -m ruff check .` in root dir.

## Tests

This code has test coverage for python 3.10, 3.11, and 3.12.

Commit message:

Refactor/clean score (#4)
* rename alignment_score to score

* make function private, add wrapper

* cleanup

* type ignore

* update tests

* add test correct result

* update docs

README.md, after:

[![multilayer-alignment](https://github.com/letiziaia/multilayer-alignment/actions/workflows/validate.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/letiziaia/multilayer-alignment/actions/workflows/validate.yml)
[![Python 3.10+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3100/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/letiziaia/multilayer-alignment/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/letiziaia/multilayer-alignment/graph/badge.svg?token=KSXP8K5A8S)](https://codecov.io/gh/letiziaia/multilayer-alignment)

# multilayer-alignment

This repository implements an algorithm for quantifying multilayer alignment or higher-order alignment, that is, the alignment across n different dimensions. You can refer to the [slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1HMEE5kOwwJPLBmAgycKIMSWRx0eCxd3RtSxVR1Jdczw/) for the original idea.

## Structure of the repo

- `\multilayer_alignment\`: source code
- `\tests\`: tests for the source code

## Installing the package

### From PIP

This package can be installed directly from the Python Package Index (PyPI) using `pip` from the command-line interface by executing the following command:

```shell
$ pip install multilayer-alignment
```

### Build from source

Alternatively, the package can be installed by first cloning the repository containing the source code and then installing the package locally in a chosen directory:

```shell
$ git clone git@github.com:letiziaia/multilayer-alignment.git
$ cd multilayer-alignment
$ pip install .
```

## Setting up the development environment

![python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-FFD43B?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=blue)

You should have python >= 3.10 and [pipenv](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv#installation) installed.

```shell
# install dependencies (including dev)
$ pipenv install --dev

# activate environment
$ pipenv shell
```

## Formatting

The project uses [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html), [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/) and [ruff](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/) code linting.
All the code can be formatted by running `python3 -m black .` in root dir.
Additional issues can be found by running `python3 -m flake8 .` and `python3 -m ruff check .` in root dir.

## Tests

This code has test coverage for python 3.10, 3.11, and 3.12.
